---
title: "Study on the coupling transportations of aerosol in hazy environment within the canopy of urban micro-scale environment"
collection: projects
type: "General project of National Natural Science Foundation of China"
permalink: /research/03-NNSF-42075179
venue: "Advisor: Prof. Yanming Kang"
role: "Participant"
---

The impact of particulate matter (PM) on indoor air quality (IAQ) has become an important issue in China, whereas the standard for the filtration of PM in building ventilation has not been promulgated up to now. Due to the impacts of particle size distribution (PSD) on the particle removal efficiency of the air filters, and also due to the various characteristics of local PSD across China, it is necessary to analyze the selection of PSD when evaluating particle removal efficiency for practical applications. Although the efficiency of PM (ePMX) for various particle size ranges, proposed in the latest EN ISO 16890 standard, is used to evaluate the actual effect of air filters for building ventilation on the improvement of IAQ, it is inappropriate to be adopted for the cases in China. In the present study, fine particle proportion (PM2.5/PM10) is employed and ambient aerosol distributions across China are analyzed. The measured PSDs at 35 cities are fitted to bimodal distribution. And then the ePMX and class reporting values (CRVs) of three representative filters are calculated. The results indicate that being affected by the characteristics of PSD, the ePMX and CRV differences of the same air filter between different PSD regions can be up to about 20% and 15%, respectively. Therefore, the China PSD regions are divided into five regions and the standardized PSD is determined for each region of the mainland.